---
title: Exact renormalization group, entanglement entropy, and black hole entropy 2
date: 2021-11-22
speaker:
    - name: João Lucas Miqueleto
      inspire: '1812045'
bibliography: 
    - miqueleto2021ExactRenormalizationGroup
---
The study of black hole physics revealed a fundamental connection between thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and gravity. Today, it is known that black holes are thermodynamical objects with well-defined temperature and entropy. Although black hole radiance gives us the mechanism from which we can associate a well-defined temperature to the black hole, the origin of its entropy remains a mystery. Here we investigate how the quantum fluctuations from the fields that render the black hole its temperature contribute to its entropy. By using the exact renormalization group equation for a self-interacting real scalar field in a spacetime possessing a bifurcate Killing horizon, we find the renormalization group flow of the total gravitational entropy. We show that throughout the flow one can split the quantum field contribution to the entropy into a part coming from the entanglement between field degrees of freedom inside and outside the horizon and a part due to the quantum corrections to the Wald entropy coming from the Noether charge. The renormalized black hole entropy is shown to be constant throughout the flow while the balance between the effective black hole entropy at low energies and the infrared entanglement entropy changes. A similar conclusion is valid for the Wald entropy part of the total entropy. Additionally, our calculations show that there is no mismatch between the renormalization of the coupling constants (in particular, the minimal coupling $\xi$ with the scalar curvature) coming from the effective action or the total gravitational entropy, showing that once the theory is renormalized the total gravitational entropy comes out automatically finite.
